{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green25\blue25;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12941\c12941\c12941;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16620\viewh10340\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reconciling the differences between AI and Generative Grammar\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Asma and Andrew Carnie\
University of Arizona\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Abstract:\'a0\
For the past 70 years, the theory of Generative Grammar has been the primary theory of the mental representation of sentence structure. Through its many iterations it has been shown to be an explanatory theory, which accounts for a wide range of syntactic constructions in a very wide variety of languages. Two of the most important results of Generative Grammar are:\'a0\
\
1) Structure Dependence: Sentences are hierarchically organized entities, where the layers structure govern grammatical operations.\
2) Poverty of the Stimulus: Very young children learning to use syntax are exposed to insufficient data from their environment to acquire the complex grammatical system that they appear to use. As a consequence Children must be tapping some other knowledge (such as an innate Universal Grammar), in order to effortlessly acquire and use language at a young age.\'a0\
\
Artificial Intelligence, in particular \'93Large Language Models\'94 (LLMs), are impressive engines of language production. They can produce human-like language that is apparently indistinguishable from human language. These LLMs appear on the surface to provide a direct contradiction to the two major results of Generative Grammar. 1) They do not make use of hierarchically structured rules. Instead they are purely statistical engines that operate over linear strings. 2) They appear to acquire languages without any access to an innate Universal Grammar or any other 
\f1\i a priori 
\f0\i0 information.\
In this short presentation, we present some evidence that what LLMs and Generative Grammar are actually not comparable. We present evidence that humans do utilize hierarchical structures and that LLMs appear unable to tap this critical knowledge. We also discuss the fact that the kinds of input data presented to LLMs is materially different from the input available to children. We argue that comparisons between LLM and GG represent a false narrative \'97 like comparing apples to oranges. We reconcile this by identifying that the two systems have fundamentally different functions. We claim that GG is designed to capture the grammatical 
\f2\i\b knowledge
\f0\i0\b0  of humans, whereas LLMs are designed to mimic language 
\f2\i\b behavior
\f0\i0\b0 . These two tasks are not the same so comparisons between the two systems are not appropriate.}